### Narrative & Production
In the conversations with our ontology working group it became clear there were two distinct but related ways of organizing and thinking about the various entities that go into the making of a creative work. We realized that the narrative or story elements, although highly related, were different from the entities needed to in production when shooting the work. This separation was one that we have not seen a clear delineation of in other ontologies, but once arrived at, helped us solve and structure many of challenges.

Although it is not a clear line, when starting to break down a script during pre-production the steps are mostly focused on identifying and describing the narrative elements. These things are derived from the script and include the scenes, characters, props and locations in the story. In this first phase it may not be known who is going to be cast to play a character, but we do know we have a character, and that character probably has some properties like a height or eye color. During this initial script breakdown we can also start to create relationships to other narrative elements like scenes, props or the locations described in the story. At this time, none of these necessarily exist in the real world, no one has made the props, or scouted the locations.

As the pre-production process moves along the more tangible artifacts of the production need to take shape, but all of these are driven from the requirements of the narrative.

A location provides a good example of how the narrative differs from its production counterpart. A narrative location is a description of place as it relates to the story, it might be a real place like a street in New York or a fictional place like The Shire from the Hobbit. The narrative location is really quite simple, from a data perspective it may be just the name of place. However the production counterpart describes the real world details, it is where you want the crew to show up at a set time, therefore it contains the address or GPS coordinates of a remote location, or the sound stage where the set is located alternatively it might be the 3D model that is being used. The two are inextricably connected but it very useful to be able to think about them separately in different circumstances.

Props, costumes, set dressing or vehicles can also be thought of separately. A prop like Luke Skywalkers’ lightsaber may be single narrative element, it's 'production' counterparts however are multiple and varied. There will be different version made for different scenes, there are physical and digital versions, each of the production props needs to be tracked separately, they are used in different shots, must be on set on different days, etc. However, they are all narratively Luke's lightsaber.

It is well known that a film or television show is not shot in the same sequential sequence that the viewer watches it, the order in which a film is shot is based on multiple practical issues, like shooting all the scenes performed in one location together or crew availability. A narrative scene may include a set of shots where the a character has flashbacks to their childhood. This set of shots make a single narrative scene but are not going to be filmed together at the same time or possibly place; they are more than likely shot with different actors, one for the child and one for the adult, as well as different locations. In the narrative context this is still one character, but the production will require 2 actors to play that character at different times in their life. It is also multiple production scenes, with different potentially different crew, location, props, etc.