# Introduction

The [Ontology for Media Creation](https://mc.movielabs.com/docs/omc) (OMC) was originally created in RDF, and provides formal definitions and a data model for a set classes and relationships that bind them together. The purpose of OMC is to facilitate communication between different software components in a media creation workflow by a using common data exchange model and terminology. In today's software environment JSON is a more common interchange format than RDF, this project implements the classes and relationships from the original RDF OMC as a JSON schema.

It is worth reiterating that primary goal of OMC, and this schema, is to establish a common mechanism for exchanging data among applications or microservices, thereby reducing the effort and work required to integrate new applications and components into a production workflows. In the data plane, applications and services can integrate using OMC once, rather than having multiple pairwise integrations with other components.

Key Points:
- It is NOT designed as a replacement for an applications internal data models. It is likely that for any given area this schema will cover a subset of information that an application needs internally. The intent is to cover the types of information that need to be shared more broadly across the entire production, and make available a canonical set of references and context needed for a workflow to execute.
- It is NOT designed as a replacement for existing open, or propriatory, formats for encoding metadata such as USD, EXIF, EDL, etc. OMC looks to solve the common problem of exchanging these, and other types of files and data between applications with enough additional context to be able able to setup and execute workflows using automation.
- The model is written using JSON, which in todays environment, has wide support across multiple languages and protocols. It is intended to be consumed via APIs (e.g. REST and GraphQL) or as a payload in data communication systems (message-based or with text files.)
- The model and resulting schema rely heavily on the use of identifiers to uniquely identify instances of individual entities and the assets those entities describe. The schema is designed such that just a reference for an entity can be passed, and a receiving application can do a secondary lookup, or it can be de-referenced, and the entire entity included in a payload.
- The model treats relationships as first class citizens, although JSON is hierarchical in nature the structure allows for graphs to be represented, including recursive relationships.

