# Narrative & Production
In the conversations with our ontology working group it became clear there are two distinct but related ways of organizing and thinking about the various entities that go into the making of a creative work. The narrative or story elements are different from the entities needed in production when shooting the work, although they are obviously closely related. We have not seen this clear separation in other ontologies, but once arrived at, it helped us solve and structure many challenging problems.

When starting to break down a script during pre-production the steps are mostly focused on identifying and describing the narrative elements, although there is often some blurring into production elements. Narrative elements are derived from the script and include the scenes, characters, props and locations in the story. In the first phase it may not be known who is going to be cast to play a character, but we do know we have a character, and that character probably has some properties like a height or approximate age. During this initial script breakdown we can also start to create relationships to other narrative elements like scenes, props or the locations described in the story. At this time, none of these necessarily exist in the real world; no one has made the props, or scouted the locations.

As the pre-production process moves along the more tangible artifacts of the production need to take shape, but all of these are driven from the requirements of the narrative.

A location provides a good example of how the narrative differs from its production counterpart. A narrative location is a description of place as it relates to the story. It might be a real place like a street in New York or a fictional place like the Shire. The narrative location is really quite simple - from a data perspective it may be just the name of place and some description. However, the production counterpart describes the real world details: it is where you want the crew to show up at a set time, therefore it contains an address or GPS coordinates for a real location, or the sound stage where the set is located. Alternatively it might be a 3D model or virtual environment. The two are inextricably connected but it very useful to be able to think about them separately in different circumstances.

Props, costumes, set dressing, vehicles, etc. can also be thought of separately. A prop like Luke Skywalkers’ lightsaber may be single narrative element. Its production counterparts however are multiple and varied. There will be different versions made for different scenes and there may be physical and digital versions,. Each of the production props needs to be tracked separately, since they are used in different shots, must be on set on different days, and so on. However, they are all narratively Luke's lightsaber.

It is well known that a film or television show is not created (shot or rendered) in the same order that the viewer watches it. The order in which a film is shot is based on multiple practical issues, such as crew availability or shooting all the scenes performed in one location together. A narrative scene may include   flashbacks to childhood, premonitions of the future, or events happening elsewhere. This set of shots is combined to make a single narrative scene but they are not going to be filmed together at the same time or place; they involve different actors (adult and child) and possibly different locations. In the narrative context this is still one character, but the production requires two actors to play that character at different times in their life. Each production scene may have a different crew, set of props, etc.